# Health
Personal health is an aspect of life that everyone has to deal with and everyone will have a different approach to. With that being said, I strive to provide both simplified, heuristic based approaches combined with quantatative, scientific based approaches for folks who have similar goals and values as I do. In the broadest sense possible,  my personal health goals are to find the optimal balance of longevity and performance. I want to feel great physically, mentally, and emotionally. I want to have a sharp mind, great endurance, strength, emotional discipline, flexibility, and fortitude. My goal is to put myself in the best position to have sustained superior performance for as long as possible. 

## Nutrition

Nutrition does not need to be that complicated in order to see good results. On the other hand, if you take your personal health and athletic performance seriously, it may be valuable to take the time to understand what goes into personal nutrition. I have two seperate approaches, one being a mostly heuristic approach that has worked for me, and a quantatative approach that tries to key into ones physiological profile, current health goals, and current health background in order to get feedback that is more tuned to an individual's circumstances. This means understanding what your macronutrient and micronutrient requirements/guidelines should be for your biometrics (height, age, weight, genetic profile, blood profile, etc). 

For my heuristic based approach, the concept is pretty easy : stick to meat, fruit, vegetables, and other natural foods while avoiding heavily processed, sugary goods. This essentially means that all of the delicious grain goods and sugary goods that you like aren't that good for you (in case you didn't know) and human bodies respond well to natural foods. For most people just starting to hone in their nutrition, this idea alone can take you very far because there are many negative consequences outside of gaining weight that eating sugary foods have on an individual. For example, eating a lot of processed foods can spike blood glucose levels and insulin levels which can cause inflamation, volatile energy levels, and much more. This is an example of how sometimes becoming better involves limiting the ways in which you are not good. Doing less bad things is a good thing in and off itself, so one should not feel that they must get all of these different things rights in order to get very meaningful results.

After eliminating / minimizing the amount of bad foods that one consumes, one should get an idea of what relative proportions of food one should aim to eat in the context of a single meal, a days worth of meals, and a weeks worth of meals. 

## Exercise
A balanced exercise regiment should include strength training, endurance training, and mobility/flexibility training. With that being said, your exercise goals should be aligned with your overall health goals and functionality goals. Some people will want to focus on building strength, others on endurance, etc. What is important is that you find something that you enjoy doing and can do consistently since this will play a big factor in how you will execute your exercise plan. This is the only way that exercise can become fun as opposed to mundane.

## Mental Health
Since I am not very knowledgable in this realm, I will try and keep this section fairly short. I believe that mental health starts with having a purpose in life that you care about, healthy relationships with your family and friends, and maintaining balance with your responsibilities. In my opinion, there are some things outside of your control that can lead to a lot of stress or unhappiness. Although I would like to learn more ways in which I can fortify my mental health, I have personally found that adopting a Stoic attitude to pain and suffering coupled with purposeful, regular communication with my familiy and friends to be a great way of finding myself in a peaceful state of mind. 

- "Be tolerant with others and strict with yourself"
- Be grateful since things can always get much worse
- Find a purpose and way of life that works for you

I have found that meditation is a helpful practice for me to switch activities, especially after I have just exercised or did something stressful. For me, meditating is as simple as putting your body in a good position to breathe, closing your eyes, and focusing on your breathing for 10 minutes or however long works for you.
